baseNode_govDoc.md, before:

# govDoc 
_baseNode → govDoc_

## Description
To create a document which outlines a minimal set of procedures for governing a house (or other living space) as a common resource. Should be short, simple and clear.

## Features
* Defines the domain to which it applies.
* Includes (space for) purposes, objectives and principles (i.e. why associate, what for and how.)
* Includes relevant conceptual assertions (i.e. unrestricted domain, negative rights, etc.)
* Not related to or dependent on external enforcement.
* Provision for tiers of rules with different energy barriers to change.
* Functional as an agreement. (i.e. it is possible for people to 'sign'.)

------

### Open questions
* How does the legislative/executive/judicial model relate?
* How do Ostrom's principles relate? (I.e boundaries/local-conds/coll-choice/monitoring/sanctioning/conflict-resolution/min-rights.)
* Why bother to make it harder to change some rules than others?
	* _"2. Changes in deeper-level rules usually are more difficult and more costly to accomplish, thus increasing the stability of mutual expectation amond individuals interacting according to a set of rules... Rules provide stability of expectations, and efforts to change rules can rapidly reduce that stability."_ - Elinor Ostrom, Governing the Commons, pg 53-54.

------

>>> commence chaos...

1. constitutional (meta-meta)(how to change the rule-rules)
	2. collective choice (meta)(how to change the rules)
		3. operational (object)(the rules)
		
1. who is a member, how do members coordinate
	2. what members coordinate to do
		3. what members have coordinated to do
		
1. change using defined process (difficult)
	2. change using process defined in 1. (easy)
		3. 
		
... perhaps three levels is too many?

1. who is a member, what are they a member of, how do they coordinate
	2. what they coordinate to do
	
1. change using process defined in 1. (difficult)
	2. change using process defined in 1. (easier)
	
1. 'collective decision made with 2/3 majority'
	2. (70 % in favor of cleaning rota) → 'rota system of different areas, allocation by lot, amendments by 1/2 majority'
		(3. << a specific rota instance >>)

membership
	entire membership = every 

Changes
1. Changes to primary rules must be initiated by a member. To initiate a change a member must have their proposal seconded by another member. Once initiated, the entire membership must be notified of the proposed change and be given at least 14 days to collect amendments and other proposals.  After the 14 day period has elapsed, no new amendments or proposals are received and proposals are fixed as ballot options. 
2. Changes to secondary rules

Initiated by: any member with seconding from any other member.
	Participants: all members, only members.
	Proposal phase: 2 weeks.
	Voting phase: 2 weeks.
	Reproposal phase: 2 weeks.
	Voting phase: 2 weeks
	

$COLLECTIVE
$ASSET

PRIMARY RULES

<<collective>>@EMA.IL

§ 1. $COLLECTIVE govern $ASSETS as common-property.

§ 2. Membership.
	§ 2.1 Becoming a member.
	Must understand and accept the primary and secondary rules.
	States clear intent to 
	
§ 3. Decision-making.
	§ 3.1 

decisions may be made by an individual, a sub-collective or the whole collective

Individual
* Just do it.
* Announce-it: notify others (i.e. 'I plan to do x after yyyy-mm-dd')
* Ask-for-advice: consult affected, interested or knowledgable parties for advice (not authorization.)

Collective. 
* Recommended for actions that irreversibly alter commonly used resources or require the labor of multiple individuals to achieve. Required for actions that have met or would meet resistance.
1. Unanimity
	1.1 Unanimous support: all individuals actively support decision.
	1.2 Unanimous acceptance: no individual actively resists decision.
2. Weighted score voting
	2.1 Light procedure
	2.2 Medium procedure
	2.3 Heavy procedure

Commit message:

ostrom principles and some dev on value side govdoc

baseNode_govDoc.md, after:

# govDoc 
_baseNode → govDoc_

## Description
To create a document which outlines a minimal set of procedures for governing a house (or other living space) as a common resource. Should be short, simple and clear.

## Features
* Defines the domain to which it applies.
* Includes (space for) purposes, objectives and principles (i.e. why associate, what for and how.)
* Includes relevant conceptual assertions (i.e. unrestricted domain, negative rights, etc.)
* Not related to or dependent on external enforcement.
* Provision for tiers of rules with different energy barriers to change.
* Functional as an agreement. (i.e. it is possible for people to 'sign'.)

------

### Open questions
* How does the legislative/executive/judicial model relate?
* How do Ostrom's principles relate? (I.e boundaries/local-conds/coll-choice/monitoring/sanctioning/conflict-resolution/min-rights.)
* Why bother to make it harder to change some rules than others?
	* _"2. Changes in deeper-level rules usually are more difficult and more costly to accomplish, thus increasing the stability of mutual expectation amond individuals interacting according to a set of rules... Rules provide stability of expectations, and efforts to change rules can rapidly reduce that stability."_ - Elinor Ostrom, Governing the Commons, pg 53-54.

------

>>> commence chaos...

Principles
1. **Autonomy.** Individuals and the collective are free to act without coercion.
2. **Equality.** Interests of individuals within the collective are considered equally.
3. **Acceptability.** Avoiding opposition is to some extent preferable than pursuing support.

Purposes
* To produce, develop and/or distribute goods and services that are free to use, change and redistribute.
* To holistically provide for the humans within the collective to live, work and play.
* To support others wishing to set up spaces which are governed in common.

Decision-making
By individuals or else by unanimous acceptance or else by weighted score voting.

1. constitutional (meta-meta)(how to change the rule-rules)
	2. collective choice (meta)(how to change the rules)
		3. operational (object)(the rules)
		
1. who is a member, how do members coordinate
	2. what members coordinate to do
		3. what members have coordinated to do
		
1. change using defined process (difficult)
	2. change using process defined in 1. (easy)
		3. 
		
... perhaps three levels is too many?

1. who is a member, what are they a member of, how do they coordinate
	2. what they coordinate to do
	
1. change using process defined in 1. (difficult)
	2. change using process defined in 1. (easier)
	
1. 'collective decision made with 2/3 majority'
	2. (70 % in favor of cleaning rota) → 'rota system of different areas, allocation by lot, amendments by 1/2 majority'
		(3. << a specific rota instance >>)

membership
	entire membership = every 

Changes
1. Changes to primary rules must be initiated by a member. To initiate a change a member must have their proposal seconded by another member. Once initiated, the entire membership must be notified of the proposed change and be given at least 14 days to collect amendments and other proposals.  After the 14 day period has elapsed, no new amendments or proposals are received and proposals are fixed as ballot options. 
2. Changes to secondary rules

Initiated by: any member with seconding from any other member.
	Participants: all members, only members.
	Proposal phase: 2 weeks.
	Voting phase: 2 weeks.
	Reproposal phase: 2 weeks.
	Voting phase: 2 weeks
	

$COLLECTIVE
$ASSET

PRIMARY RULES

<<collective>>@EMA.IL

§ 1. $COLLECTIVE govern $ASSETS as common-property.

§ 2. Membership.
	§ 2.1 Becoming a member.
	Must understand and accept the primary and secondary rules.
	States clear intent to 
	
§ 3. Decision-making.
	§ 3.1 

decisions may be made by an individual, a sub-collective or the whole collective

Individual
* Just do it.
* Announce-it: notify others (i.e. 'I plan to do x after yyyy-mm-dd')
* Ask-for-advice: consult affected, interested or knowledgable parties for advice (not authorization.)

Collective. 
* Recommended for actions that irreversibly alter commonly used resources or require the labor of multiple individuals to achieve. Required for actions that have met or would meet resistance.
1. Unanimity
	1.1 Unanimous support: all individuals actively support decision.
	1.2 Unanimous acceptance: no individual actively resists decision.
2. Weighted score voting
	2.1 Light procedure
	2.2 Medium procedure
	2.3 Heavy procedure
